  
**Hiraeth** is the only city on Mar, it's founding began as an excavated precursor ruin. The ruin is protected with a large outer wall of ancient-metal which has been mostly excavated. A lot of the ruin still remains buried, and so, these areas are sealed off to most except those closest to Naya. the layout forces people to go through gates. It was founded and is ruled by Naya, and the Nayan protectorate.

In the early days, following the destruction of the heart of the world by Naya and Proa. Naya became a sage, studied things many things in his Lab - a site which he eventually abandoned in favor of the eventual site of Hiraeth. Naya had been uncovering many ruins, discovering technologies within these ruins. One of those ruins being hiraeth.

Naya promised his pariah they would have access to many of the objects uncovered within the ruins, all but the most unknown treasures, which Naya kept for himself. Naya had remained true to that promise. Many of the lesser objects had indeed entered circulation among Naya's generals. Motivated by these findings, they wished to continue excavation pursuits all across Mar.

Hiraeth not only had the advantage of being a ruin itself but also had an existing Eco Mine. giving it a consistent stream of Eco and Metals. additionally, Large underground pipes had been laid to channel this eco. following these pipes Naya had been able to find additional ruins. Naya would sometimes excavate and then reuse these pipes in other locations. and had reconstructed the network to areas of worth across the rest of the world, In recent times however, this system has fallen into disrepair with eco drying up or being cut off entirely.

Petrifach, forming an alliance with a supporting Precursor faction led an assault against the city. known as the battle of the winding pass, Wherein several Petrifach and Precursors were slain. Many Lums, and Petrifach blades were recovered, and Proa would obtain the Singing sword.

Although the city is partially open to outsiders, The city is also divided into sectors. Namely for different tiers of the Nayan Protectorate. these sectors are reserved for Naya's faction, namely the excavation site. Some sectors of Hiraeth however, especailly outer-reaching sections, had been condemned or relinquished. This had been due to uprisings or wildlife problems

Naya had mostly reconstructed the city using the powers harnessed from both lums and eco. he would routinely raise up Pariah into Precursors in exchange for their service either at Hiraeth or at the Monastery. These became his Guards, which were powerful beings outfitted in not only precursor metal equipment, but also had access to both eco and lums.

Naya's civilization had relied upon both eco and lums - mainly lums. Unfortunately for Naya he had very little way to obtain new lums. one of his lords was attempting to develop a way to avert lums entirely. Outer towns had very little knowledge of the happenings at Hiraeth or the Monastery, but tended to stay away from both and did not consider themselves aligned to Naya.

Many blamed Naya for their problems, and so wished to replace Naya. Many believe Naya had coveted technologies which could be saving them. The first hero had ralied against Naya and had been unsuccessful in doing so, leading to his death. Naya has little power against Prae who is situated at the heart of the world, even with several precursor generals the petrifach are incredibly strong in comparison to Naya, despite out-numbering Prae, he isn't nearly as powerful, and has no access to the heart of the world. conquering the heart of the world wasn't an option.

Naya has begun to ration and tithe lums, and makes difficult decisions in regards to the future of Hiraeth due to the scarcity of lums.

Some of Naya's ardent generals began to back the aims of external forces. One such general had excavated a network to unlock a backdoor to Hiraeth. This led to Amari gaining access to the city, and temporarily gaining control over the eco network. where he successfully redirected the flow of eco to the Feleden Mine. now, with access to new sources of eco elsewhere on the network, Amari quickly lost the portion of Hiraeth, which was later condemned and sealed off.